---
title: Accessibility considerations
---

## Does it affect screen readers?

Screen readers ignore the view transition pseudo-elements and read the page behind it.

Navigation API:

> Any navigation that is intercepted and converted into a single-page navigation using `navigateEvent.intercept()` will be communicated to accessibility technology in the same way as a cross-document one. Using `intercept()` serves as a opt-in to this new behavior, and the provided promise allows the browser to know how long the navigation takes, and whether or not it succeeds.
> — [Navigation API explainer](https://github.com/WICG/navigation-api?tab=readme-ov-file#accessibility-technology-announcements)

_Though, in my testing this wasn't always the case_. I hope that's just because this stuff is in the early stages. When implementing, do your own testing.

## Continuity can help people with cognitive disabilities

## Motion can be bad for people with vestibular disorders

## Flashing can be bad for epileptic people or people with migraines

## You can transition any element into any other element, maybe don't do interactive<->non-interactive as it could confuse users

> ## Expectation
>
> Expectation fall into two areas — how users perceive what an object is, and how it behaves. Another way of saying this is that as designers, we want to minimize the gap between what the user expects, and what they experience.
>
> ## Continuity
>
> Continuity speaks both to the user flow and to the ‘consistency’ of the user experience. Continuity can be thought of in terms of ‘intra-continuity’ — the continuity within a scene, and ‘inter-continuity’ — the continuity within a series of scenes that make up the total user experience.
>
> ## Narrative
>
> Narrative is the linear progression of events in the user experience that results in a temporal/spatial framework. This can be thought of as the series of discreet moments and events that connect together throughout the user experience.
>
> ## Relationship
>
> Relationship refers to the spatial, temporal, and hierarchal representations between interface objects that guide user understanding and decision making.
> — [Creating Usability with Motion: The UX in Motion Manifesto](https://medium.com/ux-in-motion/creating-usability-with-motion-the-ux-in-motion-manifesto-a87a4584ddc)
